Keni Barwick
Software Delivery
kenibarwick@gmail.com

07795666588

England

British

https://www.linkedin.com/in/kenibarwick/
https://bluebik.com/our-people/7672
www.redtomaotes.club

Profile
Keni stands out as an expert in Agile software delivery, boasting an extensive background in various stages
of the delivery lifecycle. His expertise spans roles like Scrum Master, Agile Coach, Delivery Manager and
Trainer, extending to Program Management and Portfolio Management.
As a holder of multiple prestigious certifications, Keni is a Certified Scrum Developer (CSD), Scrum Master
(CSM), and Scrum Professional (CSP) by the Scrum Alliance. He's also a Kanban Coaching Master by Lean
Kanban, a British Computer Society (BCS) Agile Practitioner, a Value Flow Quality Trainer, and a Certified
SAFe (Scaled Agile Framework) 5 Program Consultant (SPC) and several trainer enablement’s under his
belt.
Keni's technical acumen is not limited to a single area; he has significant experience across various sectors
including pharmacy, retail, government, and banking. Due to his mobile application engineering
background, he excels in translating technical requirements into solutions that not only meet but exceed
customer expectations, ensuring customer delight.

Skills

Latest Work Experience
Delivery Director, Bluebik Global
Worked with multiple clients, simultaneously. Which included;
GitHub, A Vietnamese Bank, Siam Commercial Bank, EXI (a UK based health care API) and an
Indonesian Retail Investment application.
I developed and sustained Agile delivery plans for project teams, maintained key stakeholder
and PMO communication, and advocated for Agile culture.
My role included; coaching the Managing Director, fostering a positive company culture,
ensuring effective Agile ceremonies, resolving delivery issues, managing risk and compliance
and building/delivering and revising training for one of the company products. I aligned all
activities with stakeholder needs and upheld best practices in Delivery, Engineering, and
Automated Testing (QA).

“Keni has lead the Agile delivery process across the company in the challenging
early stages and through the life cycle of the many of our key projects” – Martin
Simpson MD – Bluebik Global - https://bluebikglobal.com/

Past Experience
Lead Scrum Master, Discover Finance Services
Guiding the Core Data platform senior management team through a program of
agile transformational processes changes entitled “AWOW.” Focusing on lines of
communications and highlighting bottlenecks in delivery.

2021 – 2023

Enhanced stakeholder engagement and communication, with OKR’s and
optimising project delivery using Kanban flow methods.
“Keni’s implementation of a unified self-service support model across the platform
was a game-changer. His emphasis on a DevSecOps mindset, advocating for ʻoneclick deploy and a collaborative ʻone fails, we all failʼ approach, has greatly
enhanced our engineering teamsʼ efficiency and coherence.
But most importantly, Keni has instilled a sense of empowerment and enjoyment within
the team, which has been pivotal in our journey towards innovation and operational
excellence.”
Joel Moskow – Principal Product Owner - Discover Finance

Agile Coach, ASOS
Steering several teams, whom had variant levels of Agile maturity, to either
refresh their domain knowledge or add to it. Specifically, Estimations (Why and
how), Team (Agile) Health Checks and a complete review of Ways of Working
within a data platform and assisted the Mobile Application teams decrease their
release cycle times.

2020 – 2021

I mentored teams on Agile best practices, contributing to the continuous
improvement of delivery processes and facilitating the day to day software
delivery activities.
In addition, I also worked with several Engineering Managers to help them with
their new role and build initiatives to allow them to “drive the Agile bus.”
Emergn, VFQ Trainer / Agile Coach
Internal Training team – VFQ Trainer / Agile Coach
Emergn has multiple individuals that are situated across the globe who have had
some or no exposure to Agile.
One of the Project Managers assigned to a part of a governmental application
was new to Agile methods and was struggling to understanding which method to
use with their team of collocated developers, testers, and business analysts.
They had tried to implement both Scrum and Kanban to various degrees of
success, but the team was suffering from dependencies not arriving to the
agreed timelines. The client mistrusted the teamʼs capability and doubted the
value of work being delivered which, in turn, resulted in lots of work being held
back from client sign off, with payments eventually being withheld.
This is a common issue across the industry, but with the help of the VFQ
educational pathways the project manager was able to supply a uniformed set of
change across the team, and organisation, and help them self-grow in their role.

2019 – 2019

Cognizant, Scrum Master/Agile Coach
Home Office – Scrum Master
Shaped the creation of two new cross functional teams using a framework
designed to scale further teams. Worked with incumbent Scrum Masters to help
with the overall vision of the client enabling the teams to stay focused on their
targets.
The FA – Agile Coach/DM
Transformed and trained a Cognizant team in to an agile (Scrum) delivery
engine! Worked at board level from concepts to delivery of targeted campaigns,
e.g. https://forgirls.thefa.com/
CBRE – EMEA Agile Coach
Coaching multiple development teams of various Agile maturity levels across
EMEA. Daily tasks range from running story mapping workshops for greenfield
projects to training days for newcomers to the methodologies. Reporting into a
stateside-led initiative and working with development teams in India, London,
and the West Coast.
Elsevier – Agile Programme Manager
Building and managing an Agile framework for the delivery of a project to merge
a group of European-wide third-party technology suppliers for the client. Regular
face to face meetings with senior directors in different geographic locations.
O2 – Scrum Master/Coach
Within Digital area of the channels department, I helped to focus an established
Sales Force development team into a mature set of Agileist's via coaching on a
one2one or team basis. Eventually due to maturity moved from Scrum to
Kanban
Local World – Agile Programme manager
I helped choose and appoint the platform provider for a new Jobsite platform
(Madgex) to replace a legacy jobsite system. My team and I worked on
successfully negotiating a multi-million-pound refit of a platform which
contained 74 sites.
"Last Wednesday"
I organised a monthly after hours voluntary social community-based event called
Last Wednesdays. This event is to promote the Agile values and principles to the
Advanced Solutions Group, where external and internal speakers present up to
40 minutes and discuss with the audience. Since taking on the responsibility the
attendance doubled in less than 6 months.

Certificates & Education

2014 – 2019

